---
author: "Jazztache"
title: "The Need For TabCaster"
date: 2025-11-11
---
TabCaster that came out of a common need for a virtual monitor application on Linux. 

There are plenty of options on Windows. However, these options were not available for Linux, and we specifically wanted something that would run on Linux Mint. This desire is what brought forth the idea of TabCaster.

Before I was on the project, my teammate Guransh experimented with using FFmpeg and streaming the screen using a Python program.

The original objective of the application was to get 60 FPS streaming on the application.

Later on, around halfway through the year, I joined the project and I was decided that we would re-write the server in C with myself doing the testing and the UX. 

I also made sure to test such as i3 and the X11 version of KDE Plasma.

We eventually got a working prototype. we were unable to get more than 20 FPS on average. This was fine for static contents such as scrolling shots and looking at documentation for coding.

As of today, our Alpha Build has been released on GitHub since October 7th 2025. We are proud to present a very early working version of TabCaster. If you have any issues, please report them on GitHub.

Guransh and I plan to resume development for a short while longer. We might be focusing on increasing the frame rate, stability and eventually supporting Wayland.

We cannot promise the world as we are a small team. However, like any grassroots open source project, we will try our best. 

If you're open to contributing to TabCaster - either client or server, feel free to submit a pull request.
